# Review-Article
 Safety and security requirements elicitation
Abstract: -
The developing intermingling of data innovation with operational innovation and the understanding expansion of interconnected Cyber actual frameworks (CPSs) has led to a few security and wellbeing challenges. One of these alludes to deliberately recognizing sound, steady, and non-clashing security and wellbeing prerequisites. This paper proposes an incorporated technique for wellbeing and security necessities designing for CPSs at the plan phase of the framework lifecycle. The strategy recognizes security and wellbeing targets, it deliberately evokes a far-reaching rundown of prerequisites, and it connects these necessities to destinations, accordingly working with the way toward settling clashes.
Introduction: -
Because of the nearby entwining of the digital and actual segments, both wellbeing and security are fundamental for the solid activity of digital actual frameworks (CPSs). Wellbeing plans to shield frameworks from accidental activities while security infers insurance from both deliberate also, inadvertent dangers. The relationship among wellbeing and security have broadly been broke down in the writing [1,2,3]. This work proposes an incorporated strategy for the joint elicitation of safety and wellbeing necessities right on time during situation plan. The presented strategy inspects the wellbeing and the security of the focused-on framework by dissecting the comparing goals. This cycle empowers the distinguishing proof of necessities right off the bat in the framework's plan stage, and works with the goal of possible struggles among security and security necessities.
Discussion: -
With respect to wellbeing and security necessities determined through the use of SafeSec Tropos to the C-ES case, we note that: 
• Overlapping necessities: Some wellbeing prerequisites cover with security necessities. For instance, on account of the AIS these are: (I) SafR4 with SecR7, (ii) SafR8 with SecR8, and (iii) SafR9 with SecR9. It is critical that similitudes can be found in necessities that get from the accessibility, honesty, excess, and nature of administration goals. Further, the covering prerequisites share similar wellbeing and security objectives. The prioritization of the covering necessities ought to be finished thinking about explicit standards. 
• Grouping necessities: Several prerequisites, material to everything frameworks, can be gathered to shape Generic prerequisites. The excess prerequisites will frame sets of System-explicit necessities. This gathering works with the correspondence and the prioritization of the necessities during the design definition and execution stage. Further, the wellbeing and safety efforts to execute such necessities can follow a similar order; consequently, their administration and execution measure is worked with. 
• Conflicting prerequisites: No undeniable necessities clashes have been recognized. This might be credited to the specificities of the framework under investigation, yet additionally to the cautious, non-clashing, determination of the wellbeing and security destinations and objectives that SafeCec Tropos permits. 
• Applicability to C-ES variations: SafeSec Tropos can catch the contrasts between various self-rule levels, by demonstrating the associations, conditions and interdependencies of the model 
segments of various vessel types (regular, far off controlled, self-sufficient). 
• Validation: Due to the absence of norms and enactment for self-governing boats and for the joint examination of wellbeing and security, the approval of wellbeing and security sees in Phase 3 of SafeSec Tropos was performed by thinking about the significant writing, and security [4] and security guidelines [5]. The models got from stage 3 were approved by considering the operational, ecological, and framework intricacy of the CPSs under investigation.
The SafeSecTropos method: -
Security and Safety targets depict framework highlights which guarantee the framework's security and wellbeing. A fundamental advance of the proposed strategy is the recognizable 
proof of these destinations for every framework under investigation.
Phase 1 - Define the scope: The extent of the examination is characterized thinking about both framework and climate attributes. The elaborate partners are distinguished, alongside the appropriate enactment and guidelines. Further, their capacities and tasks are explained as a stage towards the advancement of the authoritative model. The result of this stage is the examination of the focused on biological system's experience.
Phase 2 - Hierarchical View: The authoritative model of the biological system is created by thinking about the result of Phase 1. In this stage the partners are displayed as entertainers, and their substances are recognized. Such elements can be partner's objectives, plans, and assets, alongside associations/interconnections, and conditions/interdependencies.
Phase 3 - Framework to-be: Modeling and depiction of the framework tube. The framework under examination is displayed as an entertainer and its security and wellbeing targets are distinguished. Specifically, the framework's objectives, elements, and cycles are distinguished. Two particular perspectives are demonstrated, the wellbeing view and the security see. The previous addresses framework level perils and mishaps, regulator obligations, dangerous control activities, causal variables, and security limitations. The last portrays framework level weaknesses and dangers, security substances, objectives, and security requirements.
Phase 4 - Approval: The created models are approved by thinking about the relevant enactment, principles, and partners. The result is a refined arrangement of wellbeing and security targets. 
phase 5 - Security and Safety co-investigation: The security examination for the objective framework is performed following the Secure Tropos measure, and the wellbeing examination following the STPA approach. The result of this stage is the arrangement of the security prerequisites and the arrangement of wellbeing 
prerequisites. The prioritization of the security and wellbeing necessities ought to be performed dependent on explicit standards. These measures rely upon the operational prerequisites of the framework under investigation, the framework engineering, and the approval that important partners will perform. 
As per IEC 63069 [6] the goal of potential contentions among wellbeing and security necessities ought to be performed by important partners from the two spaces. This cycle is incredibly worked with by the way that every necessity can be followed back to the objective(s) that created it.

Conclusion: -
In this paper, a coordinated methodology for wellbeing and security prerequisites designing has been proposed. The proposed SafeSec Tropos technique works with the joint investigation of wellbeing and security by demonstrating the framework for the two purposes under a similar model and by giving documentation in regards to the expected struggles of the distinguished necessities. These contentions can be settled by following them back to the comparing wellbeing and security goals. As future work we intend to characterize a wellbeing and security design agreeable to the recognized prerequisites. Such a design would potentially incorporate robotized episode reaction instruments [7] to deal with basic occurrences that may influence the vessel's framework. The ID and demonstrating of the fitting security and wellbeing estimates will work with the plan and the establishment of free from any danger by plan frameworks in basic foundations like the C-ES.
Reference: -
[1] N. Karanikas, Revisiting the relationship between safety and security, Int. J. Saf. Secur.Eng. 8 (4) (2018) 547–551.
[2] L. Piètre-Cambacédès, M. Bouissou, Modeling safety and security interdependencies with BDMP (boolean logic driven Markov processes), 2010 IEEE International Conference on Systems, Man and Cybernetics, IEEE, 2010, pp. 2852–2861. 
[3] S. Sadvandi, N. Chapon, L. Pietre-Cambacédes, Safety and security interdependencies in complex systems and SoS: challenges and perspectives, Complex Systems Design & Management, Springer, 2012, pp. 229–241.
[4] International Organization for Standardization (ISO), Information Technology Security Techniques Information Security Management Systems, ISO 27000 Series, Technical Report, (2016).
[5] International Organization for Standardization (ISO), Road Vehicles Functional Safety, ISO 26262-1:2018, Technical Report, (2018).	
[6] International Electrotechnical Commission, Industrial-Process Measurement Control and Automation, Framework for Functional Safety and Security IEC 63069:2019, Technical Report, (2019).
[7] J. Lopez, C. Alcaraz, R. Roman, Smart control of operational threats in control substations, Comput. Secur. 38 (2013) 14–27.
